# Contributing Guide

Contributions are welcome, if you find some bugs or have some ideas, please open an issue or submit a pull request.

Please ensure that you are using clean code, following the coding style and code organization in existing code, and make sure all the tests pass.

Please submit **one PR that does one thing**, this is important, and helps us to review your code more easily and push to merge fast.

## AI Assistance

> 🤖 When you submit PR, please point out which parts are generated by AI, if any.

All code generated by AI must be reviewed and tested by humans, and should follow the same coding style and code organization as existing code.

The AI generated code without refactoring will be rejected.

## Code Style

Before you start to write code, please read the existing code to follow the same coding style and code organization.

- Inspired by existing code or refer to macOS/Windows controls API design to name your functions, properties, structs etc.

## Development and Testing

There are a lot of UI test cases in the `crates/story` folder, if you change the existing features you can run the tests to make sure they are working.

### Run story

Use `cargo run` to run the complete story examples to display them all in a gallery of GPUI components.

```bash
cargo run
```

### Run single example

There is also available some split examples, run `cargo run --example` to see the available examples.

```bash
cargo run --example table
```

## UI Guides

GPUI Component is inspired by macOS and Windows controls, combined with shadcn/ui design for a modern experience.

So please refer to the following UI guides when you design or change the UI components:

- [Apple Human Interface Guidelines](https://developer.apple.com/design/human-interface-guidelines/)
- [Microsoft Fluent Design System](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/apps/design/)
- [shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/)

### Rules

- Use `default` mouse cursor not `pointer` for buttons, unless it's a link button, we are building desktop apps, not web apps.
- Use `md` size for most cases and as the default.
